# React: Component Mounting and Unmounting

## Objectives

1. Describe what happens in the mounting phase of a React component's lifecycle
2. Describe what happens in the unmounting phase of a React component's
   lifecycle
3. Practice performing setup and teardown actions at the appropriate point in
   the React component lifecycle.

## Overview

You are a pancake chef in a fancy pancake restaurant. Time is ticking and
customers are waiting, so you better get those pancakes out quick! Pancakes need
to be cooked on either side and taken off the pan at the right moment before
they burn for optimal deliciousness.

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://i.imgur.com/yti5NLe.gif"/>
</p>

Go on and run the game. It doesn't quite work yet, because some essential bits
are missing and it's up to you to finish it off!

Pancakes need to be cooked equally on both sides to be yummy. The current
settings are that if a pancake is cooked for exactly 2 seconds on either side,
it's considered to be cooked perfectly. If it's cooked for more than 2 seconds
on either side it will be burnt and otherwise it will be raw. You can change
these settings in `<Pancake />`!

## Shop needs an opening time

First, you want to record the time your shop was opened. Open `<Game />` and
notice a `setCurrentTime()` method already exits, but it is not yet called.
Create a `componentDidMount()` method in `<Game />` which will call the
`setCurrentTime()` when the component is first created. If you've done that
correctly, you should see the current time at the top of the page.

## Pancake needs a timer!

Now it's time to implement the actual pancake cooking part of the game. Firstly,
we need a timer on each pancake so we could record how long it's been cooking.
Look in `<Pancake />` - the `startInterval()` method is already there. All you
need to do is add a lifecycle method in `<Pancake />` at `componentDidMount()`
(that's the point at which the pancake component gets added to the page) which
will start the counter.


## Tidy up the timer

Now that we've set up a timer, we need to make sure we also remove it as soon as
it's not needed anymore. It is important to always clean up such long-running
processes as soon as they are no longer needed. You wouldn't leave your dirty
dishes on the table after you've finished eating - similarly you shouldn't be
leaving your intervals ticking after the component using them has been
dismounted. As you can see, a `cleanUpInterval()` function is all set up for
you, so all you have left to do it call it just before the component gets
unmounted from the page. That will be in the `componentWillUnmount()` method.

That's it! You've finished off the game! Happy pancake-making!

## Resources

- [React: Component Specs and Lifecycle](https://reactjs.org/docs/react-component.html)

<p class='util--hide'>View <a href='https://learn.co/lessons/react-component-mounting-and-unmounting-lab'>Component Mounting And Unmounting Lab</a> on Learn.co and start learning to code for free.</p>
